.TH man 1
.SH NAME
minishell \- a lightweight Unix shell implementation

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B minishell
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B minishell
.RI [ -c\ | --command\ ] " <command>"
.br
.B minishell
.RI [ --help ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B minishell
is a lightweight version of a Unix shell, allowing the execution of simple or compound commands, management of redirections, pipes, logical operators, history, temporary aliases, and a batch mode.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -c ", " --command " <command>"
Execute the specified command before exiting.
.TP
.B --help
Display the help message and exit.

.SH FEATURES
.TP
.B Unix commands execution
Execute standard Unix commands with or without arguments.
.TP
.B Redirections and Pipes
Supports input and output redirections (\fB>\fR, \fB<\fR, \fB>>\fR, \fB<<\fR) as well as pipes (\fB|\fR).
.TP
.B Logic operators
Supports conditional execution of commands using AND (\fB&&\fR) and OR (\fB||\fR) operators.
.TP
.B Background command execution
Allows background execution of commands using the \fB&\fR symbol.
.TP
.B Built-in commands
Custom implementation of built-in commands: \fBcd\fR, \fBpwd\fR, \fBexit\fR, \fBecho\fR, \fBhistory\fR, \fBalias\fR, \fBunalias\fR.
.TP
.B Command history
Every command entered is logged in \fB~/minishell_logs/command_history\fR. The \fBhistory\fR command displays this history.
.TP
.B Temporary aliases
The minishell allows the creation, display, and deletion of temporary aliases valid for the current session.

.SH EXEMPLES
.TP
.B minishell
Launches the interactive minishell.
.TP
.B minishell -c "ls -alF > file.txt"
Executes the command \fBls -alF and redirects the output to \fBfile.txt\fR, then exits.
.TP
.B minishell --help
Shows the help message.

.SH AUTHORS
BRENNER Quentin and NAEGELY Jeannot

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sh (1),
.BR bash (1)
